Today’s printed comments consider
how Satan has blurred
people’s view of Jehovah.
Satan has blurred their view,
or blinded people, by means
of apostate teachings and by seeing to it
that God’s name has been removed
from many copies of the Bible.
For this morning’s discussion,
we want to consider a related concern,
and that is, What current
and future events in Satan’s world
could blur our view
of God’s Kingdom if we’re not careful?
With each point, we’ll tie in the principle
found in these words at Jeremiah 10:23,
where it says:
“I well know, O Jehovah,
“that man’s way does not belong to him.
It does not belong to man
who is walking even to direct his step.”
With this in mind, we’re going to look
at how widespread protests,
political promises,
and claims of peace and security
could distort our view
of God’s Kingdom if we’re not careful.
First is widespread protests.
When protests sweep through any country,
there’s often someone leading the way
with a very loud or persuasive voice, true?
And their message
usually touches on something
that many see as an injustice.
Whether the protest involves dozens,
hundreds, or thousands of people,
most of the protesters are followers,
and they repeat a message, or slogan.
The problem is that the solutions they seek
are human solutions.
Recall Jeremiah’s words:
“It does not belong to man . . .
even to direct his step.”
What danger do such protests
pose for true Christians?
The danger is this: If we get caught up
in the spirit of popular protests
—even slightly supporting a cause,
even silently within our heart—
we could find our view
of God’s Kingdom growing dim.
What, in turn, could that lead to?
Well, when people in the world
lack clear direction or hope,
their hearts often start to be filled
with anger and rage.
A servant of God can feel such things too
if he or she loses sight of the Kingdom.
Consider for a moment what happened to those
who followed after King David’s son Absalom.
The Bible explains that Absalom
objected to his father’s rulership,
but he did more than that.
Through cunning words and actions,
he gathered a following.
You can read about what he did
at 2 Samuel 15:2-6.
He promised the people justice.
And verse 6 says that “Absalom kept stealing
the hearts of the men of Israel.”
In other words,
the people got caught up in his message.
Eventually,
those who joined him turned violent,
and the outcome was disastrous.
Yes, even the hearts of those
who worship Jehovah
can be stolen, or captured,
or as today’s text says,
‘led astray’ for a misguided, or bad purpose.
So that is the danger,
and we can be certain that Satan knows it.
There’s no question
that Satan is right now using
various messages of protest
to direct people away
from the real solution, God’s Kingdom.
And Satan will cast his net wide
to try to capture
some of Jehovah’s people, if possible.
To avoid that
and remain focused on the Kingdom,
we must not forget what Isaiah 42:1
promises about Jesus.
There it foretells that
“he will bring justice to the nations”
—he will, not humans.
As King of God’s Kingdom,
Jesus is the one who will bring
what sinful humans can never bring
—real justice for people.
A second thing
that can blur our view of the Kingdom
if we’re not careful is political promises.
Is there no end to the false promises
that people will make when they want power?
And even when politicians
try to fulfill some of their promises,
they often fall short on the wisdom
and the resources to do it effectively.
Political powers can only provide
short-term human solutions at best.
They often cave in to popular
and immoral thinking.
Their thoughts are so distorted
that they have difficulty
seeing right from wrong.
They face long-term problems,
including social unrest,
that they cannot permanently solve,
and no amount of money can fix it for them.
Again, we recall Jeremiah’s words:
“It does not belong to man . . .
even to direct his step.”
When the rulers of ancient Rome
tried to put down social unrest,
they gave many things to the people for free.
Food, entertainment, and many services
were free or very cheap.
They called it “bread and circuses.”
See, that was their formula to appease
the people and gain their allegiance.
But like the governments of today,
that man-made empire was in gradual decline.
And the humans in charge
had no long-term answers,
only short-term offerings.
Now, it’s likely that the early Christians
in Rome and elsewhere benefited
from some of the things
that the empire provided:
food, water, good roads, and so forth.
Still, those early Christians
needed to remain focused
on the Lord and on his promised Kingdom;
otherwise, their view of things
could have become distorted
and they might have been pulled
into compromising their faith
by giving undue glory to the empire.
How shortsighted that would have been!
That empire in Rome would eventually,
and did eventually,
turn against those Christians.
Today, we too may benefit
from some of the things
that the nations are doing,
but like the early Christians,
we must never allow the Kingdom
to become out of focus
in our minds and hearts.
What will help us to do this?
We’re helped when we remember
that Jehovah and his Son
are in charge of man’s future.
The solutions they offer are permanent.
The promises
they have made will be fulfilled.
If we keep that focus,
then when this man-made system
turns against God’s people,
it will have no hold on us.
As God’s Word directs,
we submit to man’s rulership
where it does not conflict with God’s rule.
But in following that direction,
we’re not entrusting our future
to political promises and favors.
We entrust our future to God’s Kingdom alone.
The more that the nations try to appease
the people through political promises,
the more determined we must be
to keep the Kingdom in focus
as the real solution.
That leads us to the third thing
that could blur, or distort,
our view of God’s Kingdom, namely,
when the nations
are saying “peace and security.”
At 1 Thessalonians 5:3, God’s Word foretells
that “whenever it is
that they [the political powers] are saying,
“‘Peace and security!’
then sudden destruction
is to be instantly on them.”
Why will sudden destruction come?
Because human governments
are not the solution.
Despite having heard the Kingdom message,
the nations will not stop trusting
in themselves to solve their problems.
At some point,
the political powers
will be arrogantly saying
“peace and security” in a way
that fulfills 1 Thessalonians 5:3.
Jehovah knows how and when
that will prove to be.
Yet, no matter how much or how loudly
the nations will be saying it,
they cannot change this fact:
“It does not belong to man
who is walking even to direct his step.”
Just as humans cannot
simply flap their arms and fly,
so, too, humans cannot
rule themselves successfully.
So as things move ahead
toward the great tribulation,
we must not allow ourselves
to be fooled no matter how convincing
the speeches and boasts
from the nations may sound.
And we will not be fooled
if we refuse to get
caught up in popular protests
that seek human solutions
to the world’s problems,
if we refuse to place
our trust in political promises,
and if we refuse
to be fooled by the nations saying
“peace and security.”
So no matter what Satan’s world
promotes in the news,
on social media,
or elsewhere, we’re convinced
that God’s Kingdom alone is the solution.
What can we do to keep that focus?
Keep preaching
the good news of the Kingdom to people,
including the warning about what is coming;
remember that Jehovah and his Son
are the ones
who are in charge of man’s future;
and never allow Satan
and his world to weaken your faith
and blur your view of God’s Kingdom.
And always have this in mind:
it’s stated at Isaiah 26:3, 4,
where it says of Jehovah:
“You will safeguard
those who fully lean on you;
“you will give them continuous peace,
“because it is in you that they trust.
“Trust in Jehovah forever,
for Jah Jehovah is the eternal Rock.”